# Prevalence-of-Irregular-Menstruation
<p> The taboo around menstruation has been persistent since ages. Throughout history, women have been discriminated against and shamed for a normal biological function of human body. Misinformation and cultural myths surrounding menstruation can lead to ignorance and may even result in poor menstrual health. Menstruation is one of the most under-prioritised issues getting compartmentalised as a women’s issue instead of the human rights matter that it is. As per a study, in India only 48 percent of adolescent girls are aware of what menstruation is before getting their first period. </p>
<p> Because of the social stigma and taboo associated with menstruation, the talk around menstrual problems is still overlooked over other health issues. 
Prevalence of irregular menstruation can have several health implications. As per the results of a large scale survey conducted across India in 2020, about 23 percent of women respondents between the ages of 20 and 29 years suffered from menstrual problems. According to the report findings of 18 countries studied, India ranks alarmingly low when it comes to healthy menstrual cycles and holds the bottom position. </p>
<p> Almost half of India’s women suffer from irregular menstruation. Irregular menstrual cycles, if untreated can lead to other health issues such as PCOS, infertility, etc. 70 percent of all reproductive illnesses in India are caused by poor menstrual hygiene. 
As evidence suggests that menstrual health is intrinsically linked mental health, we took an eager interest in bringing forth this project PREVALENCE OF IRREGULAR MENSTRUATION. </p>
